dr k is your passion the same thing as
your purpose hi everyone lately i feel
like my life is my life passion is
psychology like this is the one thing
that i should pursue i started thinking
about pursuing it in middle school or
high school but then i thought it wasn't
a good idea for a while
now i'm thinking about it again and i'm
almost 25. almost every day i think
about the psychological struggles that
my friends or just people like
co-workers have told me about and i'm
always applying things i learned from
watching your videos as well as other
sources of information to
to to them to try and figure them out
sometimes i get lost in thought trying
to solve people's mental struggles like
puzzles and when i do feel like i found
an answer i get excited i get the
feeling to tell the person right away
because i think it may help them i do
not usually try to give advice though
because i'm not properly trained to do
so and don't want to spread
misinformation
i've wondered if i i like feeding my own
ego in it but i really feel like i
genuinely want to help people especially
with things that i manage to cope with
pretty well like anxiety however maybe
i'm wrong i'm not sure
but when i
think of pursuing psychology i think
about how difficult it will probably be
and feel like i'm just not in the
position to pursue it
and it appears to be competitive it
seems like to really have a career in
the field i need to get a doctorate from
an accredited school it sounds like a
lot
i'm barely able to take care of myself
i'm majoring in i.t right now and i'm
struggling to balance it with my job and
i'm struggling to stay motivated to
continue it but i still feel like
i have my own problems to fully overcome
such as social anxiety and past traumas
which i think has gotten better but
needs much more work i simply
just do not feel like i'm ready to
pursue it but at the same time i wonder
if i'll ever be ready
and then i think is this really what i
meant to do
or am i just making
excuses so
great post
so this is what i'll say okay
the biggest handicap in life is waiting
to be ready
so everyone wants to do things when
they're ready
but the truth is that like readiness is
like kind of a scam and waiting to be
ready is the most paralyzing thing that
you will ever experience in life
so let's try to understand what does it
mean to be ready so if we look at this
post what we see is this person is like
i'm 25 years old so maybe some shame
they've fallen behind things like that i
really care about psychology i really
care about helping people fantastic
but it's a lot of work
i don't know if i'm gonna be ready
and i don't even know like if i even
start the doctorate while i finish it
like will it be good enough am i going
to be capable you see all of the excuses
so i want this is what i want you guys
to see okay
all positive
i found the answer i get excited i get
feeling i'm not properly trained i don't
want to spread information i'm trying to
help people i like helping people
and then the doubts start to arise
right so here's like a pretty honest i
don't know if i'm feeding my own ego and
then but
my passion in life is psychology
you know i'm thinking about it again
almost every day i think about a
positive positive positive positive
but
appears to be competitive it sounds like
a lot i'm barely able
majoring struggling
i also have my own problems to fully
overcome you see that i'm not going to
be ready until i fully overcome my
problems
i wonder if i'll ever be ready
right
so this person is already starting with
the idea that i have to be ready
in order to do it
so readiness is the most paralyzing
thing in life
is what is readiness
we look at this post and i encourage you
guys to think about it when i'm gonna be
ready to ask this person out when
when i'm in shape i'll be ready to go to
the gym when i won't embarrass myself
i'll be ready to apply for the job when
i know i'm gonna get it i'm gonna be
ready to apply for college when my gpa
is good enough i'm gonna be ready to
apply for college when i've written an
awesome personal statement
so what is ready
what does that mean to be ready it means
to be free of your doubts right because
if you do it before you're ready what is
the experience what is the state of
being before you're ready oh it may not
work i don't know if it'll work what if
i can't do it i have all my crap to
overcome it may not work uncertainty
what you're looking for is something to
wipe it away readiness is like a cheat
code in life right it's like a cheat
that wipes away it's this mythical thing
that wipes away all of your anxieties
and you're uncertain because when you're
ready
i'm ready i'm confident let's do this
let's go
right just you don't want all those
freaking anxieties and no i may not be
good enough it's a lot of work like i
want to be white i want to be free of
all that crap i want to just wipe it
away and once it's wiped away then i
will be ready once i fully overcome my
traumas and anxiety i've made a lot of
progress but i'm not ready yet i'm not
ready yet i need to fully overcome it
right
i will only act
when it's easy for
me my solution to success is to wipe
away all of the negative things that i
live with on a daily basis and then i
will go i will go when i'm ready
and this is what holds us back in life
because you're never going to be ready
won't happen
right think about this just think about
this for a second
how can you be ready for something
before you do it it's absurd
right like like think about becoming a
parent like no one's ready to become a
parent you don't know [ __ ] about being a
parent before you become a parent like
it's absurd
even having a second kid
like
having one kid and having two kids is a
completely different ball game like so
here's the thing when you have one kid
so thankfully i'm in an intact household
so i'm still married right so like you
outnumber your child
so you like you think like okay i'm
gonna be a decent parent because it's
like me and my wife and we're like tag
teaming this right so like gg kid
we got this
then they get a second kid you think
you're ready because you've got a kid i
have a kid
they're two years old i've succeeded in
parenting
and then it's a whole different ballgame
because you don't outnumber them anymore
it's an even game it's like oh my god
screwed
there's two of them and they're both in
diapers
gg like i was not expecting this
right i was not ready for a second kid
the truth is in life we're never ready
for anything it's an absurd concept
the only way i was winning the game of
being a parent is when i had the odds
stacked in my favor
i wasn't ready for the second kid i
never will be and you gotta have one
anyway i mean not y'all it depends you
gotta be ready
but in reality so this is the thing like
being ready is the most paralyzing idea
in life
because it's it's a continually being
ready is the ultimate form of
procrastination
it's like the highest level of
procrastination this idea of being ready
because what is procrastination
procrastination is nothing but not today
that's what procrastination is right
and until you're ready you have an
endless supply of not today's i'm not
ready yet i need to work on this i need
to work on this i need to overcome this
i need to fully process my traumas
before i apply for a doctorate in
psychology what
you don't need to fully process anything
you just need to get your ass up and
apply
but what if i don't get in what if it's
a lot of work what if this what if that
what if this what if that okay yeah sure
what if all of those things what are you
looking for certainty
are you like
it's not gonna happen
so if you guys are waiting to be ready
for something
stop waiting because you'll never be
ready
right on a more practical sense
sometimes you'll be ready i mean i think
that there's you know
like
there's good reasons when people aren't
ready but for the most part what i find
is that being ready is just like it's
the biggest source it's the strongest
paralytic in life it's the ultimate form
of procrastination so let it go
if you want to live your life you can't
live your life in a pain-free way if you
really want to make it worth living it
can't be pain-free
so to this person i would say apply for
the doctorate who the hell cares what if
you aren't ready you're just going to
fail so do it anyway so you've got a
choice you can live your life so for the
last you're 25 years old and you've been
interested in psychology since middle
school
so for seven years of your life you
could have been doing psychology and you
chose not to or you weren't able to so
give yourself some forgiveness cut
yourself a little bit of slack
and also recognize that you've got a
choice
seven years from now you could have a
doctorate or you could be thinking about
doing psychology
right and it just apply
work on it try
give it a shot and you say oh i'm not
ready yet so what
the consequence of not not being ready
is experience that's what you get by not
being ready
could you fail sure would you could you
get accepted sure
but then you're gonna learn stuff and so
then what happens i think it's good that
like you're learning stuff from here
right
but it's very easy
it's easy to watch our videos and like
learn something from it and like try to
talk to your friends and give them
advice but then also try not to give
them advice
because you're not a trained
professional so go be a trained
professional
if it's what you're interested in if
it's what you're passionate about if
it's what you've cared about since
middle school then go do it
and then you say but
but this but this but this but this good
so then now you have your sequence of
things that you have to take care of
right so good job you've done some of
your work in processing your social
anxiety you've learned how to cope with
anxiety like you're probably very good
but
but this but that but this but that so
then ask yourself this question what do
you what do you want your life to be
are you ready to
not be ready at life or do you need to
fix everything first you need to put all
your ducks in a row
and recognize dig into that look into
like why do you need your ducks in a row
before you start doing something
now what's the consequence of your ducks
not being in a row
and now we come back to it failure right
you want everything to be perfect
because if you're perfect then
everything will work and then you can
have confidence that everything will
work
once you're certain then you can have
confidence it's an interesting oxymoron
because confidence doesn't come from
certainty
confidence can't exist when there's
if i'm playing sc2 and i use a map hack
in some kind of bot to like do
everything i can be certain that i'm
going to win
but i'm not going to be confident in my
skill at starcraft
you guys get that
confidence doesn't come from certainty
it comes from uncertainty it comes from
acting in the face of uncertainty it
comes from surviving uncertainty
you're never going to be confident if
you're ready
confidence comes from acting when you're
not ready from giving it a shot and
learning that hey even if i'm not ready
look at this
i'm able to succeed
and then you'll then you'll really be
ready then it's going to be like gg game
over and you're going to start living
your life the life that you deserve to
live in the life that you owe yourself
so get your ass to actually like
applying and doing the things that you
do and don't wait until you're ready
go